>> Sean Larkin: Yeah, go ahead,
this is the perfect time.
Cuz really I think this kinda rounds out,
now, you should,
by default at least, have everything,
understanding how to use a loader.
Understanding how to apply it,
understanding where it is composed to
isolate behaviors in your configurations.
How really to use ESM and
even common JS if you have to.
But I mean hopefully you feel a lot more
confident about what Webpack is that it's
doing and how it works.
Tomorrow, before we learn about plugins,
I have a special deep dive section
which actually talks about,
what is Webpack doing under the hood,
specifically?
But yeah, I think, rounded out wise,
this is a good place to stop in terms of
content, what were the other questions?
>> Speaker 2: If
you split your JavaScript files into main,
vendor and manifest,
as per the docs on caching.
And your vendor files getting too big,
what are some of the step
you'd take to reduce the file size?
>> Sean Larkin: That guide that we talk
about there, I don't think it's
been upgraded to Webpack 4 yet.
And we'll talk about
caching tomorrow as well.
But If you're still on Webpack 3,
I'll just say remove
the comments chunks plugin.
Basically caching is way less
important than being able to minimize
the amount of JavaScript you
have on your initial download.
So you can still split out the manifest,
that's valuable.
When they say manifest it's really
the run time, the bootstrap code.
But I would say focus more on
actually splitting your code
with like the dynamic import statement
>> Sean Larkin: Instead
of trying to force or
synthetically create this spender bundle.
Because at the end of the day, caching
really only solves the time it takes for
the network to retrieve an asset.
But the number one cost of a page loading
slowly is the amount of JavaScript you
have to parse evaluate and execute.
So you don't get any winds there
by creating these vendor bundles.
So I would say like long answer short,
turn the caching off,
turn the caching features off.
And then just focus on trying to
asynchronously load code that you don't
need upfront.
>> Sean Larkin: Any other
questions?
>> Speaker 3: Is
there a lazy load plugin you'd recommend?
>> Sean Larkin: So lazy loading is code
splitting in Webpack, and
we have a plan to clear up these.
So I'll give you a preview
of what it looks like.
So let's say for example,
we don't need this footer code.
We'll make it as a scenario, and so
it's kind of contrived here,
but I'm just in our dev server.
But let's just say,
I would only want to load the footer
when somebody clicks on that button,
right?
So the first question you would ask is,
well,
if I'm going to load the footer
only when the button's clicked,
why would I load it up front, right?
So this was the main reason
Webpack was created,
was to be able to support this case
of lazy loading or code splitting.
So what we can do is we can
just remove that footer and
instead we just need to basically say,
button.addEventListener, click,
and now we have the event.
So this call back is only gonna
trigger when this event happens.
And instead of having
this footer statement,
we can actually say something
like const loadFooter.
So there's two ways to do it.
I'd like to obstruct it
out because it's easier to
understand.
>> Sean Larkin: So
this is called
the Dynamic Important Statement.
Webpack supports it out of the box,
if you're using Babble you have to add
another plugin to support the syntax.
But typescript can handle it, so
you don't need to do anything extra.
But stand alone without Babble or
Typescript Webpack can read this and
it handles the statement.
So I would just pass the exact same,
the footer.
And I think what I'll do, let's see.
Was that a default export?
>> Sean Larkin: No, it's not.
Okay, so I'm just gonna say m,
no, this is fine.
So all I've done is I've changed what
was import footer from footer, right?
So that's where we started, and
I changed it to actually be this.
Now, what we can do here is we
will probably move this code,
this document.appendChild-
>> Sean Larkin: Up inside of,
is that the right way to do it?
Yeah, it is.
Okay,
I would add it inside this event listener,
right?
We'll need that eventually.
But all we're doing is we're taking, we're
actually gonna call this inside the event.
So loadFooter and it returns a promise.
So Webpack converts this statement
into a promise itself that
lazy loads a separate file.
So what I'm doing here is
just saying I get the module
and then I think it's probably
end.footer.
>> Sean Larkin: We'll pull it up
inside of the dev server here in a second.
>> Sean Larkin: So
let's take a look and see if it worked.
I usually console log or set a break
point to make sure I know what it
looks like.
>> Sean Larkin: All right, so
we don't have a footer,
and we do have a footer.
So you can see,
if we look at our bundles now,
we've actually created a separate file,
right?
It's a completely separate bundle.
And let's see.
>> Sean Larkin: We'll just load it again.
So only when, so now, we're not
incurring any of that code that's
only needed until that user
actually does something, right?
Or until some sort of
asynchronous process happens.
And so in this case it's a call back.
So only when that happen does
this code actually load.
This is what's called,
when we say code splitting or any Webpack
maintenance to this code splitting, this
is the process that we're referring to.
And so you don't need a plug in,
it's actually just imperative
as part of the code you write.
That's what makes it so, I guess, I think
it's so expressive and really powerful.
Because literally all we've changed is
just, we took the static import out,
which would force you to
have that code upfront,
into a function that
returns a dynamic import.
And so we just call that, and then we
grab the export we need which is .footer,
and we can just use it the exact same way.
>> Sean Larkin: Yep?
>> Speaker 4: Any tree shaking benefit
over exporting individual
functions instead of
the class?
>> Sean Larkin: So
this I'll definitely talk about tomorrow.
We have the first part of the day
is all about web performance and
the constraints and the limitations.
So I'll give you the-
>> Speaker 4: Let's
just defer it to tomorrow?
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah, I'll cover it
tomorrow but I'll give the short answer
now and we'll dive into it more tomorrow.
The short answer is, yes,
methods on classes cannot be tree
shaken even if they are not used.
So I typically tend,
when I'm writing for a web scenario,
you can kinda see everything
I write is a function, right?
I'm either writing functions or
just individual exports of values.
The reason why is because those can
actually be statically tree shaken.
So I usually tell people, I know
the object-oriented folks are like, why?
But, I usually say, either have classes
with very small amount of methods where
you can incur a little overhead of
something that doesn't get used.
Or just switch to using a function.
When you think about scope and object
oriented, like modules are your scope.
People used to create
classes to scope things, but
now you have this beautiful
primitive that's literally a module.
And so you can get dependency
injection just using ESM.
You could export, you don't even need
a custom dependency injection system
because you could have singletons or
new instances any time using importing.
So the short answer is yes.
You would be better off exporting
individual functions and
values and primitives,
versus exporting a whole class.
>> Speaker 5: I just have one
quick question if that's okay.
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So it's the same problem as
npm in general, but, how do you go about
finding good plugins versus bad plugins?
I mean is there a curated list or
is there like-
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: How would you go
about it?
>> Sean Larkin: So
that's a great question.
So really we have a couple resources.
Well, one, Webpack-Contrib hosts,
we go out of our
way to ensure we at some time eventually
own a really popular third party plugin.
There are very few that I know of
besides what the Chrome team manages.
And that's for
like their service worker stuff or
like fire base or whatever or
like Angular and theres.
So we essentially house, Webpack-contrib
is 90 repositories of loaders,
and plugins, and some utility stuff.
But we own most of them,
almost all of them.
And so I would just say the best.
>> Sean Larkin: I
would say the best way is just to look and
see, kind of like, how maintained is it?
What version of Webpack is in their tests?
Is it 4 or is it like 1?
A good example is I was looking up
a loader, I was trying to find a loader.
So I was GLSL is for using 3js and
I was like GLS loader.
And I stumbled across this
webpack-glsl-loader of course,
you're like, there's 40 over them.
So I think with the one I stumbled across
that I really liked was the Webpack 1.
But it definitely wasn't maintained,
so much that like a PR
that I've been trying to submit
has not been, like, even resolved.
This one is pretty old too, right?
If you look at it.
>> Sean Larkin: Yeah,
and it's using like the old
she-bang in here, too.
To go grab raw-loader.
So I think the best way is like glslfy,
this is probably an old browserify plugin
that got converted to a loader too.
So really the best way is kinda just like
the same way you would approach anything
else, how much is it contributed?
How active are its commits?
And it may just be,
it's a finished module.
There's some out there that are like that,
but you can always tweet us and be like,
Sean, is this legit or not?
And if you have issues, like we actively
try to reach out the maintainers
themselves, we're like hey,
can we take this over, do you mind?
Like we would love to get
this off your back, and
then it's like, we can curate it,
standardize it, and
make it consistent like the rest of them.
>> Sean Larkin: That would
be probably the best way to find out.
>> Sean Larkin: Otherwise
thank you guys for joining Day 1 and
I will see you tomorrow.
>> Speaker 2: [APPLAUSE]
>> Sean Larkin: That's a wrap.
[LAUGH]